README.md, before:

## Website Performance Optimization portfolio project

Your challenge, if you wish to accept it (and we sure hope you will), is to optimize this online portfolio for speed! In particular, optimize the critical rendering path and make this page render as quickly as possible by applying the techniques you've picked up in the [Critical Rendering Path course](https://www.udacity.com/course/ud884).

To get started, check out the repository, inspect the code,

### Getting started

####Part 1: Optimize PageSpeed Insights score for index.html

Some useful tips to help you get started:

1. Check out the repository
1. To inspect the site on your phone, you can run a local server

  ```bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080
  ```

1. Open a browser and visit localhost:8080
1. Download and install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to make your local server accessible remotely.

  ``` bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> ngrok 8080
  ```

1. Copy the public URL ngrok gives you and try running it through PageSpeed Insights! Optional: [More on integrating ngrok, Grunt and PageSpeed.](http://www.jamescryer.com/2014/06/12/grunt-pagespeed-and-ngrok-locally-testing/)

Profile, optimize, measure... and then lather, rinse, and repeat. Good luck!

####Part 2: Optimize Frames per Second in pizza.html

To optimize views/pizza.html, you will need to modify views/js/main.js until your frames per second rate is 60 fps or higher. You will find instructive comments in main.js. 

You might find the FPS Counter/HUD Display useful in Chrome developer tools described here: [Chrome Dev Tools tips-and-tricks](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/tips-and-tricks).

### Optimization Tips and Tricks
* [Optimizing Performance](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/ "web performance")
* [Analyzing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp.html "analyzing crp")
* [Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/optimizing-critical-rendering-path.html "optimize the crp!")
* [Avoiding Rendering Blocking CSS](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/render-blocking-css.html "render blocking css")
* [Optimizing JavaScript](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/adding-interactivity-with-javascript.html "javascript")
* [Measuring with Navigation Timing](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/measure-crp.html "nav timing api"). We didn't cover the Navigation Timing API in the first two lessons but it's an incredibly useful tool for automated page profiling. I highly recommend reading.
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/eliminate-downloads.html">The fewer the downloads, the better</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/optimize-encoding-and-transfer.html">Reduce the size of text</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/image-optimization.html">Optimize images</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/http-caching.html">HTTP caching</a>

### Customization with Bootstrap
The portfolio was built on Twitter's <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a> framework. All custom styles are in `dist/css/portfolio.css` in the portfolio repo.

* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/css/">Bootstrap's CSS Classes</a>
* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/components/">Bootstrap's Components</a>

### Sample Portfolios

Feeling uninspired by the portfolio? Here's a list of cool portfolios I found after a few minutes of Googling.

* <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/280qkr/would_anybody_like_to_post_their_portfolio_site/">A great discussion about portfolios on reddit</a>
* <a href="http://ianlunn.co.uk/">http://ianlunn.co.uk/</a>
* <a href="http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio">http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio</a>
* <a href="http://www.timboelaars.nl/">http://www.timboelaars.nl/</a>
* <a href="http://futoryan.prosite.com/">http://futoryan.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects">http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects</a>
* <a href="http://colintrenter.prosite.com/">http://colintrenter.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://calebmorris.prosite.com/">http://calebmorris.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.cullywright.com/">http://www.cullywright.com/</a>
* <a href="http://yourjustlucky.com/">http://yourjustlucky.com/</a>
* <a href="http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/">http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/</a>
* <a href="http://www.roxannecook.com/">http://www.roxannecook.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html">http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html</a>

Commit message:

fix: Add missing optimizations section

README.md, after:

## Website Performance Optimization portfolio project

Your challenge, if you wish to accept it (and we sure hope you will), is to optimize this online portfolio for speed! In particular, optimize the critical rendering path and make this page render as quickly as possible by applying the techniques you've picked up in the [Critical Rendering Path course](https://www.udacity.com/course/ud884).

To get started, check out the repository, inspect the code,

### Getting started

####Part 1: Optimize PageSpeed Insights score for index.html

Some useful tips to help you get started:

1. Check out the repository
1. To inspect the site on your phone, you can run a local server

  ```bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080
  ```

1. Open a browser and visit localhost:8080
1. Download and install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to make your local server accessible remotely.

  ``` bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> ngrok 8080
  ```

1. Copy the public URL ngrok gives you and try running it through PageSpeed Insights! Optional: [More on integrating ngrok, Grunt and PageSpeed.](http://www.jamescryer.com/2014/06/12/grunt-pagespeed-and-ngrok-locally-testing/)

Profile, optimize, measure... and then lather, rinse, and repeat. Good luck!

####Part 2: Optimize Frames per Second in pizza.html

To optimize views/pizza.html, you will need to modify views/js/main.js until your frames per second rate is 60 fps or higher. You will find instructive comments in main.js.

You might find the FPS Counter/HUD Display useful in Chrome developer tools described here: [Chrome Dev Tools tips-and-tricks](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools/docs/tips-and-tricks).

### Optimization Tips and Tricks
* [Optimizing Performance](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/ "web performance")
* [Analyzing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp.html "analyzing crp")
* [Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/optimizing-critical-rendering-path.html "optimize the crp!")
* [Avoiding Rendering Blocking CSS](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/render-blocking-css.html "render blocking css")
* [Optimizing JavaScript](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/adding-interactivity-with-javascript.html "javascript")
* [Measuring with Navigation Timing](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/measure-crp.html "nav timing api"). We didn't cover the Navigation Timing API in the first two lessons but it's an incredibly useful tool for automated page profiling. I highly recommend reading.
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/eliminate-downloads.html">The fewer the downloads, the better</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/optimize-encoding-and-transfer.html">Reduce the size of text</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/image-optimization.html">Optimize images</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/http-caching.html">HTTP caching</a>

### Customization with Bootstrap
The portfolio was built on Twitter's <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a> framework. All custom styles are in `dist/css/portfolio.css` in the portfolio repo.

* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/css/">Bootstrap's CSS Classes</a>
* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/components/">Bootstrap's Components</a>

### Sample Portfolios

Feeling uninspired by the portfolio? Here's a list of cool portfolios I found after a few minutes of Googling.

* <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/280qkr/would_anybody_like_to_post_their_portfolio_site/">A great discussion about portfolios on reddit</a>
* <a href="http://ianlunn.co.uk/">http://ianlunn.co.uk/</a>
* <a href="http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio">http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio</a>
* <a href="http://www.timboelaars.nl/">http://www.timboelaars.nl/</a>
* <a href="http://futoryan.prosite.com/">http://futoryan.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects">http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects</a>
* <a href="http://colintrenter.prosite.com/">http://colintrenter.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://calebmorris.prosite.com/">http://calebmorris.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.cullywright.com/">http://www.cullywright.com/</a>
* <a href="http://yourjustlucky.com/">http://yourjustlucky.com/</a>
* <a href="http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/">http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/</a>
* <a href="http://www.roxannecook.com/">http://www.roxannecook.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html">http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html</a>

Optimizations:

Reduce the size of pizzaria.jpg to 100px width

Inline css/style.css

Make google-analytics script async

Add a media query for print.css

Use Web Font Loader to load the Google webfont asynchronously


Sources:
https://discussions.udacity.com/t/how-to-optimize-css-and-google-fonts/26997
https://github.com/typekit/webfontloader
